# food-order-website-using-codeigniter
It is a food order website which is build in codeigniter framework.

About this project -
Moving on, this online food ordering system project in PHP CodeIgniter focuses mainly on dealing with customer’s food order lists as users can browse available food items and add them to the cart for checkout procedure. Also, the system displays all the available restaurants with their menus on the client-side with their respective photos. In addition, the system lists out all the available restaurant’s descriptions with their opening hours and locations. This project is divided into two categories: Admin Panel and Client-Side. In an overview of this website, the user needs an account in order to place the order. Talking more about the project, the user can simply select food items, and add them to their respective cart. Under the customer’s cart section, the system displays the total amount and allows the user to proceed towards checkout. For purchase checkout, he/she can also change the shipping details too.

Customer Panel - 
After registration, the user can view and update his/her profile. From here, the user can view their orders list which displays all the recent orders with order histories. The history section consists of the food item’s name, quantity, price, order status, and total bill amount. The orders section allows under to track their food orders to check if it’s arriving any soon or later. In addition to it, the user can also cancel their order once after placing it. The system constantly updates this section as soon as his/her order’s status changes. Once the order completes, the customer can view each item’s invoice receipt which contains the restaurant’s name, food item, quanity, shipping details with other billing details.

Admin Panel - 
On the other hand, an admin panel is a must for an online food ordering system project where it allows control of the whole system. Similarly, in this project, an admin has all the access to the system. He/she can view the total number of customers with their details, restaurants, categories, food menus, orders and manage them accordingly. The admin dashboard represents all this information in figures with extra information like pending orders, completed orders, and rejected orders. The admin has the right to manage customers and add them by entering his/her name, email, username, and password. Also, an admin can add new restaurant details by providing name, telephone number, website URL, opening hours, address, category, image. Similarly, with a category, the user just has to provide a name to it. Not just it, the admin can manage food items by entering item name, short description, price, image, restaurant’s name.
